---
title: Ukarine
author: ''
date: '2022-04-26'
slug: '2022-04-26'
---
In the terrible winter of 1932-33, bridges of Communist Party activists went house to house in the countryside , looking for food. The brigade were from Moscow, Kyiv, and Karkiv, as well as villages down the road. They dug up gardens, broken open walls, and used long rods to poke up chimneys to find grain. They watched for smoke from chimneys, because that might means a family had hidden flour and was baking bread. They led away farm animals and confiscated tomato seedlings. After they left, Ukarainian peasants, deprived of food, ate rats, frogs and boil grass. They gnawed tree bark and leather. Many resorted to cannibalism to stay alive. Some 4 million died of starvation.

At the time, the activists felt no guilt. Soviet propaganda had repeatedly told them that supposedly wealthy peasants, whom they called kulaks, were saboteurs, and enemies——rich, stubborn landowners who were preventing the Soviet proletariat from achieving the utopia that its leaders has promised. The kulaks should be swept away, crushed like parasites or flies. Their food should be given to the workers in the cities, who deserved it more than they did. Years later, Ukrainian-born Soviet defector Viktor Kravchenko wrote about what it was like to be part of one of those brigades. "To spare yourself mental agony you vein unpleasant truths from view by half-closing yours eyes and your mind," he explained. "you make panic excuses and shrug off knowledges with words like exaggeration and hysteria"

He also described how political dragon and euphemisms helped camouflage the reality of what they were doing. His team spoke of the "peasant front" and the "kulak menace", "village socialism" and "class resistance," to avoid giving humanity to the people whose food they were stealing. Lev Kopelev, another Soviet writer who as a young man had served  in an activist brigade in the countryside (later he spent years in the Gulag), had very similar reflections. He too had found that cliches and ideological language help him hide what he was doing, even from himself:

>I persuaded myself, explained to myself. I mustn't give in to debilitating pity. We were realizing historical necessity. We were performing revolutonary duty. We were obtaning grain for the socialist fatherland. For the five-year plan

There was no need to feel sympathy for the peasants. They did not deserve to exist. Their rural riches would soon be the property of all.

But the kukak were not rich; They were starving. The countryside was not rich; It was a wasteland. This is how Kravchenko described it in in his memories, written many years later:

> Large quantities of implements and machinery, which had once been cared for like so many jewels by thier private owners, now lay scattered under the open skies, dirty, rusting and out of repair. Emaciated  cows and horses, crusted with manure, wandered through the yard. Chickens, geese and ducks were digging in the flocks in the unthreshed grain.

The reality, a reality he had seen with his own eyes, wad strong enough to remain in his memory. But at the time he experienced it, he was able to convince himself of the opposite. Vasily Grossman, another Soviet writer, give thees words to a character in his novel *everything Flows*:

> I'm no longer under a spell, I can see now that kulaks were humman beings. But why was my heart so frozen at the time? When such terrible things were being done, when such sufferings was going on all around me?And the truth is that I truly didn't think of them as human beings. "They're not human beings, they're kulak trashes" —— That's what I heared again and again, that's what everyone kept repeating.


